Anthology of submitted reports of systemwide abuses of workers

SLSO - Systemwide Labor Statistics Organization

1. Venus - Silicon extraction is largely forced labor. Indentured servitude has been fitted to a modern model. 
2. Mercury - Power fitters aren't provided suitable radiation gear for orbital ring maintenance. Pay is good enough that they tend not to raise alarm.
3. Belt - Dozens of illegal mining operations go beyond the gaze of this organization. One brave soul submitted his story of one of these pirate operations and what he needs to do to ensure his 4-child family has a future. Corporate operations are less secret, but more protective of their processes
4. Mercury - Sanai-Aneirin experiencing political turmoil. Workers are striking and forming Counter-Unions as solid political blocks to rebuff the corrupt Union organizers. Salman has his pockets open to the Union leads to secure their support and the support of their willing members. This organization must strive to be politically neutral but it is our belief that the continued control of the Yaravan cadre may send the people into a full crisis scenario
5. Past the Belt - Freighters report anomalies that they were not contracted for. Most contracting companies deny any knowledge of the anomalies to refuse hazard pay. Anomalies suggest strange gravitational fluctuations and optical illusions. Non-visual sensors picked up very little turbulence, but some were cloaked in "clouds of dark sparks" that hampered thruster power and triggered a certain unease amongst the crew. Some crewman were reported to be irreparably changed by these incidents.
6. Earth, Rose State - Kris Pharma management had agreed to contract changes for their union employees but have since reneged on the deal. Kris is taking a hard-line stance, attempting to pressure the unions to disband altogether. "Coincidentally" attempts were made on the lives of the top 3 organizers in the Kris organization. 1 has been left in critical condition due to a severe allergic reaction.
7. Earth, Zanzibari Protectorate - Gold mines are reported to still be using old measurement appliances, one worker reporting being assigned an actual canary, rather than electric noses of any kind. Management appears to be guiding employees in the direction of augmentation. Agreements between the mining company and the bioaugmentation company allowed workers to obtain augments for cheap, however being essentially leased via the company. Ex-Employees can be seen throughout town with various chunks of flesh missing.
8. Mercury, Ejecta Mining - Miners are steadily being armed more heavily. Craters are becoming hot zones as surface Ejecta becomes more sparse. Some Cantons are organizing formal Miner's Militias, while locales such as Vaneckspeare have deployed elements of their secret police to embed in their mining operations.
9. Earth, Enju Orbital - Enju employees are organizing for improved schedules and wages. Currently they are expected to work on yearly contacts without rotation, no matter the position
10. Mars - Dictatorship has wrested control from the hands of the workers, however closing the wagons around the populace. The regime fuels a xenophobic war against the Belt due to continued infractions by asteroids originating from the belt. 96 Workers were killed on a harvester rig when their field was struck by a projectile-asteroid and caved in. Calls were made for extra fortification of the agricultural sector, gleefully arming the farmers and establishing an orbital defence network.
11. Callisto - Continued cultural shift from the inner settlements and non-Callisto aligned outer settlements. Work culture has completely consumed the people. Due to the ease of VR multitasking, they are existing in a perpetual state of joy despite being engaged in 64hr continuous shifts on the regular. Any Arcadian that is seen outside of their space is incredibly fast talking and goal-oriented, so as to minimize their time spent away from their inports.
12. 